Bump version to 0.7.0 and write changelog (#13201)
astral-sh/uv: CHANGELOG.md

<!-- prettier-ignore-start -->

## 0.7.0

### Breaking changes

> - **Update `uv version` to be an interface for project version reads and edits ([#12349](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/12349))**

Reviewer: The sentence is a bit hard to parse

```suggestion
- **Update `uv version` to show or change the project version instead of showing the uv version ([#12349](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/12349))**
```

Author: ```suggestion
- **Update `uv version` to display or update project versions ([#12349](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/12349))**
```

>   Previously, `uv version` displayed uv's version. Now, `uv version` is used for viewing or updating project versions. This interface was [heavily requested](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/issues/6298), and after much consideration we decided that transitioning the top-level command was the best option.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Previously, `uv version` displayed uv's version. Now, `uv version` will display or update the project's version. This interface was [heavily requested](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/issues/6298) and, after much consideration, we decided that transitioning the top-level command was the best option.
```

  Here's a brief example:

  ```console
  $ uv init example
  Initialized project `example` at `./example`
  $ cd example
  $ uv version
  example 0.1.0
  $ uv version --bump major
  example 0.1.0 => 1.0.0
  $ uv version --short
  1.0.0
  ```

  If used outside of a project, uv will fallback to showing its own version still:

  ```console
  $ uv version
  warning: failed to read project: No `pyproject.toml` found in current directory or any parent directory
    running `uv self version` for compatibility with old `uv version` command.
    this fallback will be removed soon, pass `--preview` to make this an error.

  uv 0.7.0 (4433f41c9 2025-04-29)
  ```

  As described in the warning, `--preview` can be used to error instead:

  ```console
  $ uv version --preview
  error: No `pyproject.toml` found in current directory or any parent directory
  ```

>   The previous functionality of `uv version` was moved to `uv self version`.

Reviewer 2: Include code example?

Author: It seems redundant / not worth the space — I removed it after having it initially.

- **Avoid fallback to subsequent indexes on authentication failure ([#12805](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/12805))**

  When using the `first-index` strategy (the default), uv will stop searching indexes for a package once it is found on a single index. Previously, uv considered a package as "missing" from an index during authentication failures, such as an HTTP 401 or HTTP 403 (normally, missing packages are represented by an HTTP 404). This behavior was motivated by unusual responses from some package indexes, but reduces the safety of uv's index strategy when authentication fails. Now, uv will consider an authentication failure as a stop-point when searching for a package across indexes. The `index.ignore-error-codes` option can be used to recover the existing behavior, e.g.:

  ```toml
  [[tool.uv.index]]
  name = "pytorch"
  url = "https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cpu"
  ignore-error-codes = [401, 403]
  ```

>   Since `pytorch`'s indexes always return a HTTP 403 for missing packages, uv special-cases indexes on the `pytorch.org` domain to ignore that error code by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Since PyTorch's indexes always return a HTTP 403 for missing packages, uv special-cases indexes on the `pytorch.org` domain to ignore that error code by default.
```

- **Require the command in `uvx <name>` to be available in the Python environment ([#11603](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/11603))**

>   Previously, `uvx` would execute attempt to execute a command even if it was not provided by a Python package. For example, if we presume `foo` is an empty Python package which provides no command, `uvx foo` would invoke the `foo` command on the `PATH` (if present). Now, uv will error early if the `foo` executable is not provided by the requested Python package. This check is not enforced when `--from` is used, so patterns like `uvx --from foo bash -c "..."` are still valid. uv also still allows `uvx foo` where the `foo` executable is provided by a dependency of `foo` instead of `foo` itself, as this is fairly common for packages which depend on a dedicated package for their command-line interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  Previously, `uvx` would attempt to execute a command even if it was not provided by a Python package. For example, if we presume `foo` is an empty Python package which provides no command, `uvx foo` would invoke the `foo` command on the `PATH` (if present). Now, uv will error early if the `foo` executable is not provided by the requested Python package. This check is not enforced when `--from` is used, so patterns like `uvx --from foo bash -c "..."` are still valid. uv also still allows `uvx foo` where the `foo` executable is provided by a dependency of `foo` instead of `foo` itself, as this is fairly common for packages which depend on a dedicated package for their command-line interface.
```

- **Use index URL instead of package URL for keyring credential lookups ([#12651](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/12651))**

>   When determining credentials for querying a package URL, uv previously sent the full URL to the `keyring` command. However, some keyring plugins only work if given the _index URL_ (which is usually a parent of the package URL). Now, uv requests credentials for the index URL instead. This behavior matches `pip`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  When determining credentials for querying a package URL, uv previously sent the full URL to the `keyring` command. However, some keyring plugins expect to receive the _index URL_ (which is usually a parent of the package URL). Now, uv requests credentials for the index URL instead. This behavior matches `pip`.
```

- **Remove `--version` from subcommands ([#13108](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/13108))**

  Previously, uv allowed the `--version` flag on arbitrary subcommands, e.g., `uv run --version`. However, the `--version` flag is useful for other operations since uv is a package manager. Consequently, we've removed the `--version` flag from subcommands — it is only available as `uv --version`.

- **Omit Python 3.7 downloads from managed versions ([#13022](https://github.com/astral-sh/uv/pull/13022))**

>   Python 3.7 is EOL and not formally supported by uv, however, Python 3.7 was previously available for download on a subset of platforms. Now, Python 3.7 cannot be installed by uv.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Python 3.7 is EOL and not formally supported by uv; however, Python 3.7 was previously available for download on a subset of platforms.
```
